1. man
The man stands for manual. The man command displays the user manual of any command that we run on the terminal
Eg: man ls

2. ls
The ls command is used to view the contents of a directory.

3. echo
used to display line of text/string that are passed as an argument
Eg: echo "Hello"

4. read
used to read the contents of a line into a variable
Eg: read var1 var2

5. more
displays the file content.'more' command displays output one screenful at a time. Eg: more -s demo.txt



6. less
displays the file content same as 'more'. it include some more features, It automatically adjusts with the width and height of the terminal window, while 'more' command cuts the content as the width of the terminal window get shorter.
Eg: less demo.txt

7. cat
cat (short for concatenate) It is used to list the contents of a file on the standard output stdout.
Eg: cat demo.txt



8. cd
change directory command.
Eg: cd Documents

9. mkdir
to make a new directory
Eg: mkdir Music

10. pwd
find out the path of the current working directory (folder) you’re in
Eg: pwd

11. find
Find searches for files and directories.
Eg: find demo.txt

12. mv
move files
Eg: mv file.txt /home/username/Documents. 

13. cp
copy files from the current directory to a different directory
Eg: cp file.txt /home/username/Documents. 

14. rm
used to delete directories and the contents within them.
Eg: rm Music

15. tar
command helps create, extract, and list archive contents.
Eg: tar cf files.tar files

16. wc
helps in counting the lines, words, and characters in a file
Eg: wc demo.txt

17. cut
used to cut a specific sections by byte position, character, and field and writes them to standard output
Eg: cut -b 4- demo.txt


18. paste
paste command is that it joins the files horizontally by separating the lines from each file with a tab as delimiter to get the required output.
Eg: paste -s  file_name.txt


18. wc
helps in counting the lines, words, and characters in a file
Eg: wc -l demo.txt -> count the lines
wc -w demo.txt  -> count the words
wc -c demo.txt -> count the words

17. cut
used to cut a specific sections by byte position, character, and field and writes them to standard output
Eg: cut -b 4- demo.txt 


18. paste
paste command is that it joins the files horizontally by separating the lines from each file with a tab as delimiter to get the required output.
Eg: paste demo.txt file.txt


19. tar
used for compress and uncompress folder/files
compress: Eg: tar -cf test.tar test -> f stand for file name, c for creating (tar extention of folder)
uncompress: Eg: tar -xf test.tar -> x stand for extract

20. head
used to view the first lines of any text file
Eg: head -n 3 file.txt

21. tail
display the last ten lines of a text file.
Eg: tail -n 3 file.txt

22. grep
(global regular expression print) it is used to search a pattern/word/sentence in a file file
Eg: grep "is" file.txt

23. chmod
access permission of file to executable mode
Eg: chmod +x file.sh

24. chown
is used to change a file's ownership, directory, or symbolic link for a user or group.
`Eg: chown renjith prejin -> here the existing ownership prejin handover to renjith'

25. expr
used to evaluate a given expression
Eg: expr 6 + 2 -> and return o/p as 8.

26. usermod
add a new user to machine
Eg: sudo usermod -c test

27. userdel
delete a user from machine
Eg: sudo usrdel test

28. df
get report on the system disk space
Eg: df

29. top
similar to task manager in WIN. displays the running process
Eg: top

30. ps
display current process with process id (PID)
Eg: ps
